---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Igniting the fire
date: 2015-08-26
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

Ever since I first grasped a paintbrush, I’ve always been eager to learn about design. Design is such a complex concept. For example, when looking at abstract art, its meaning can be completely different for different people. It motivates a person to think thoughtfully and has the potential to submerge them in a sea of imagination. It’s that special relationship between the viewer and the art that makes something as technical as software engineering interesting to me.

I never used to think that design and technology went hand in hand.  Thus, learning about software engineering and the role of design has been incredibly interesting to me. Design, implementation, and management are just some of the many things I wish to learn more about. Good art, in a way, makes a person question it. They become joined in the idea of visualization – where captivation meets inspiration.

I am now starting to take a Software Engineering class. I hope to learn a lot through the course, but I know it will be just the beginning of my journey. By the time I’m done with it, I hope I’ve learned enough to take the next step in my life as a developer. But until then, my fire will keep on burning.
Ever hear people ragging on engineering companies for delivering late and way over budget? Well, some engineering jobs are really difficult, especially if the requirements and funding are undulating underneath you. Because of the nature of the problem, sometimes engineering firms require large amounts of engineers and workers, inviting further problems and delays.

The Honolulu Rail project at home has become this sort of poster child of failure, budget overrun and overall incompetence in Hawaii. Well, working though regulatory boards and fiscal procedures in Hawaii seems like it's a mind bogglingly difficult job to do. Granted, there might be some fishy stuff going on, but I refuse to believe that everyone is involved for nefarious reasons.

The problem of creating an unprecedented public transportation backbone on an island is difficult! I'm not sure we would have done it right, even if the best people were involved.

## In the context of relationships

So in the end, we realize that all engineering and programming is there for a reason - to serve human needs. Maybe that's why those things are difficult, because they both involve humans and are for humans.

Relationships, regardless if they're romantic or not take work. Humans are fickle creatures and relationships can come and go with the wind. To properly maintain something over time requires work. Family takes work. Marriage takes work. We live to figure out what works and what doesn't and hope that as we move forward we're improving.

Relationships have always been difficult, and by nature will continue to be so.

## Okay!

So back to the original premise; why is being one of the club officers so difficult?

And the final answer - it's supposed to be difficult, and it's supposed to challenge you, just like everything else that humans do that is difficult: programming, engineering, engaging in relationships, pondering the universe, etc.

Ultimately the question you should really ask yourself if something if particularly difficult is then "is it worth it"? That is something that is context specific and only you can answer yourself.
