---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: A3 Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-12-17
labels:
  - Assignment 3
  - Reflection
--- 

1.         What was accomplished in the project as compared to what was planned?

 
I miraculously accomplished almost everything I set out to do! The only thing I didn’t get around to doing was getting a navbar and set of pages that were generated by a function. I ended up having to hardcode the pages and navbar, which is not what I wanted but I was running out of time. But everything else I actually figured out!

2.         Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?


A “bug” is that because I have an “all” page and separate pages, if you add the same product twice it will show up twice in the cart. Also, didn’t really destroy the session when the user checks out and the email is sent.
 
3.         What was your biggest project risk and how was it managed?


My biggest project risk was stopping users from looking at the cart when they aren’t logged in. It took me so long to figure out how to do it. Fortunately I figured it out and it worked. It was also “risky” to get the cart go to the invoice, but that’s another thing that I was able to get fixed. 

4.         What is your assessment of the overall quality of the system?


I think the quality is good. With the countless amount of hours it took, I think it came out great with just a few minor problems. Everything functions just like a real website would. 
 
5.         What is needed before this system can be placed into operation?


Better, more concise design. Sticky data. A better way for session to be destroyed when the user checks out.
 
6.         Describe what you are most proud of about this project:


I am so incredibly proud that everything functions. I’m so proud that the email sends! That was something I had trouble with but it finally works now. I love how everything works, especially the login/logout feature.

 
7.         Describe what you are least happy with this project:

The navbar and hardcoded pages. I wish I could have figured out how to use a function to display the pages. Also, the design of the shopping cart isn’t perfect in my eyes, but at least it is functional.
 
 
8.         Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. "I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization"):

I didn’t work with a partner so it was pretty much all me. However, Professor Port helped me with some key parts like sending the invoice to the correct email and the login/logout! So thank you professor!
