---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Preparing for WODS
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-29
labels:
  - Workout of the day
  - Learning
--- 
Invoice1 was making a table and basically making a receipt through code. Using JavaScript different functions were used to make it work.

This WOD was okay for me. I will admit that I had to use the screencast to do it. The things that really slowed me down was some minor details. For example, I had forgotten to change price1 to price2, price3, price4 and price5, respectively. So by the time I got to the end all of the prices were totally wrong. It took much searching to figure out what I had did wrong and to fix it. I also forgot things like a semicolon sometimes. Sometimes the syntax was just wrong. 

To prepare I practiced the WOD step-by-step along with the screencast. I did it once entirely before I attempted to do it on my own and record it. Surprisingly I only had to film once. Similarly to previous WODs I watched the screencast when I was stuck. I also had to troubleshoot constantly when things weren’t working out. Differently though, I kept the screencast going while I was troubleshooting. Before I would just quit immediately when I couldn’t figure it out. This time I just let the video run and figured it out onscreen.

I should have attempted the WOD before watching the video. I also shouldn’t refer to the screencast while I am doing the WOD. Next time I will attempt to figure it out on my own before watching or referring to anything. 
