---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Why I am a MIS Major
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-08-27
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
--- 

My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:
I can look at HTML tags and know exactly what they mean. I can see errors in my code and know how to fix them, because I understand what code corresponds to what aspect of the page. I understand what JavaScript does to the HTML and how to change JavaScript accordingly. 
I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:
I had trouble with CSS for this assignment. I also had trouble with coding the server from JavaScript. I ran into issues loading the data from the server, and loading the invoice when I clicked on the submit button. It was hard for me to understand the server code.
I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first.
Yes. For the most part I’ve been able to do the WODs without looking at the screencast first. 
The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.
Yes, the labs helped me learn. I am not able to complete them with confidence- it helps to have the instructor walk us along. Part of it is it is hard to understand what the written instructions are asking, and it’s easier when someone explains exactly what is supposed to be done verbally. It is also easier with examples. 
I feel ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1).
I feel ready, but nervous. I’m nervous because I ran into problems with the last assignment, and just hope the next one can go a little smoother. I believe I’ll be okay as long as I try my best and use the resources I have.
I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
Personally, I don’t respond/work well with being randomly called on. I understand why we do it in this class though. For me, it just adds on stress and I find it difficult to concentrate on learning when I am in constant fear and anxiety that I’m going to be picked on and humiliated in front of the whole class. But I do get that we do it for a reason. 
These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:
The labs, screencasts and office hours have helped me. WODs not so much. What helps me learn is showing up to class and putting hours upon hours into the project I’m working on. Plus, asking questions to the instructor and my classmates. 
