---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflecting on Assignment 2
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-11-24
labels:
  - Reflection
  - Learning
--- 
Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details <br> 
Assignment 2 was continuing off of Assignment 1. We had to create a login and registration page, so users must have accounts before seeing the invoice and trying to buy something. Of course this entailed a lot of data validation. For the assignment there was a lot of work with using POST on the server. 
Check out my assignment here: https://github.com/rpada/ITM352_F2020_repo/tree/master/Pada_Rianne_Assignment_2

What did you learn from this assignment? <br> 
I learned a lot about both coding and about myself. I think with this assignment I now understand how the server works in a way I didn’t with assignment 1. I also understand A LOT about the data validation side of things now. Who knew I just had to code something for 12+ hours to figure it out? If anything, this assignment has also made my HTML and CSS skills stronger. I really have a good understanding of HTML now and how it comes together. JavaScript continues to beat me up but I’m getting it.

I also learned to not give up and to not be so hard on myself. I had maybe 5 mental breakdowns during this whole process but I’m proud that I picked myself back up and kept trying. It was insanely hard but I put my blood sweat and tears into it. Well, mostly tears. Almost 100% tears. 
Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
No partner. I contributed 100% to the assignment. 

How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with? <br> 
I needed help with the transfer of quantity data as well as saving my registration data into the JSON array. These are things Professor Port went over during the workshop and also over email when I reached out to him. I also reached out to my classmates, much of whom were very helpful. 
 
How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1? <br> 
There was a lot more data validation and more technical, specific details. There was also more redirecting. In assignment 1, it was more like you had to go straight from index.html to invoice.html, while in assignment 2 there were different paths the user could take to get to the invoice. There was also a lot more to do on the server, like validating the data and creating the querystring to send to the invoice.

Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging <br> 
25% <br> 
25% <br> 
50% <br> 

Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well? <br> 
I think the data validation works quite well. It only took almost a lifetime to figure out, but I did it. The only problem with it is that for the registration page it produces separate error messages every time there is a different error. It was difficult for me to do the data validation AND give the quantity values to the invoice, so I’m really happy it came out. I also think the pages look really nice from a UI standpoint. I know that’s not always the most important aspect of a webpage, but compared to my first assignment I like how it looks now a lot better. Another thing that doesn’t work well is that the registration and login data is not sticky. 

If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently? <br> 
Pick a path to finish the assignment, and stick with it. I kept changing how I wanted to do it and it caused me to take forever to finish it. I had a lot of ideas and I didn’t know which one to pursue, until the looming deadline made me pick one. Next time I’ll plan thoroughly and pick carefully what to pursue. 
